the Proverbs of Solomon a wise son makes
a glad father but a foolish son is the
grief of his mother treasures of
wickedness profit nothing but
righteousness delivers from death the
Lord will not allow the righteous soul
to famish but he casts away the desire
of the wicked
he who as a slack hand becomes poor but
the hand of the diligent makes rich he
who gathers in summer is a wise son he
who sleeps in harvest is a son who
causes shame blessings are on the head
of the righteous but violence covers the
mouth of the wicked the memory of the
righteous is blessed but the name of the
wicked will rot the wise in heart will
receive commands but a prating fool will
fall he who walks with integrity walks
securely but he who pervert his ways
will become known he who winks with the
eye causes trouble but a prating fool
before
the mouth of the righteous is a well of
life but violence covers the mouth of
the wicked hatred stirs up strife but
love covers all sins wisdom is found on
the lips of him who has understanding
but a rod is for the back of him who is
devoid of understanding wise people
store up knowledge but the mouth of the
foolish is near destruction the rich
man's wealth is his strong City the
destruction of the poor is their poverty
the labor of the righteous leads to life
the wages of the wicked to sin he who
keeps instruction is in the way of life
but he who refuses correction goes
astray
whoever hides hatred has lying lips and
whoever spread slander is a fool
in the multitude of words sin is not
lacking but he who restrains his lips is
wise the tongue of the righteous is
choice silver the heart of the wicked is
worth little the lips of the righteous
feed many but fools die for lack of
wisdom the blessing of the Lord makes
one rich and he adds no sorrow with it
to do evil is like sport to a fool but a
man of understanding has wisdom the fear
of the wicked will come upon him and the
desire of the righteous will be granted
when the world wind passes by the wicked
is no more but the righteous has an
everlasting foundation as vinegar to the
teeth and smoke to the eyes so is the
lazy man to those who send him the fear
of the Lord prolongs days but the years
of the wicked will be shortened the hope
of the righteous will be gladness but
the expectation of the wicked will
perish
[Music]
the way of the Lord is strength for the
upright but destruction will come to the
workers of iniquity the righteous will
never be removed but the wicked will not
inhabit the earth the mouth of the
righteous brings forth wisdom but the
perverse tongue will be cut out the lips
of the righteous know what is acceptable
but the mouth of the wicked
what is perverse